https://medium.com/@tim.reutemann/liquid-reign-excerpt-in-friends-we-trust-181ab753ad32

In Friends we Trust

On his last day, Daniel and Harry went to the beach restaurant for lunch, meeting Vany. She’s sitting out in the open with an older bald guy. Their table, chairs and sunshade fashioned from the same interwoven willow shoots as the interior of the place.
재활센터에서의 마지막 날, 다니엘과 해리는 점심식사를 위해 해변가 레스토랑에 들러서 배니를 만났다. 그녀는 나이든 대머리 남자와 함께 바깥에 앉아있었다. 그들의 테이블, 의자와 차광막은 레스토랑의 내부와 똑같이 버드나무가지로 짜여졌다.
“I just love this furniture.” Daniel gently strokes over the soft wood with his hand as he sits down “Must be a lot of work to prune and bind those willows.”
"이 가구들 아주 좋은걸." 다니엘은 자리에 앉으면서 부드럽게 의자를 쓸었다. "가지들 다듬느라 품이 많이 들었겠어요."  

“They’re all standard models from the catalogue.” Vany laughs, amused by the anachronistic idea. “The restaurant owner just downloads the patterns of pruning, binding and phytohormonal growth steering, and leaves it to garden drones from there.”
"그거 다 카탈로그에 있는 기본 모델들이랍니다." 배니는 시대착오적 발상에 감화되어 웃음지었다. "레스토랑 주인이 그냥 가지치기, 엮기, 식물호르몬 성장 촉진 패턴을 다운로드 받았을 뿐이고 나머지는 다 정원사 드론에게 넘긴 거죠."

Vany introduces the bald guy to Daniel: “Please meet Szimo, Master of Frogs, and brewer of apricot beer.”
배니는 대머리 남자를 다니엘에게 소개했다. "여기는 시모(Szimo), 개구리의 사부(Master)이자, 살구 맥주 양조사랍니다."

Smiling, Szimo pulls out a jar of plant material, takes out a tiny brown frog with two fingers and drops it in his water glass. “Master of Frogs, yes, me. You like frogs?” He spits the words out in a rapid staccato, with long pauses between sentences. His accent sounds Eastern European.
시모는 미소지으며, 그가 갖고있던 식물 소재의 병에서 작은 갈색 개구리를 두 손가락으로 꺼내 그의 물컵에 넣었다. "개구리의 사부, 그렇다. 나다. 당신 개구리 좋아하나?" 그는 문장 사이에 긴 텀을 두고, 빠른 스타카토로 단어를 내뱉았다. 그의 억양은 동유럽식으로 들렸다.

Fascinated, Daniel just stares at the creature and asks: “Is that the latest trend? Instead of licking them?”
흥미롭군, 다니엘은 그리 생각하며 개구리를 바라보면서 물어봤다. "이게 최신 유행이요? 그것들을 핥지는 않고?"

“Oh no, no, no. This Eleutherodactylus Coqui. Too bitter for licking. You must dilute. Aroma good, better than soft drink. You try!” And with those words, Szimo passes the glass to Daniel.
"오, 노, 노, 노. 이것 코퀴 청개구리. 핥기 너무 쓰다. 희석해야 한다. 향 좋다. 탄산보다 낫다. 맛 봐라!" 말과 동시에 시모는 컵을 다니엘에게 건냈다.

Daniel sips: “Mm. Delightful.” It tastes like water and nothing else.
다니엘은 한 모금을 머금었다. "음, 괜찮군." 사실 물 맛 외엔 아무 맛도 나지 않았다.

Vany sips: “Slight hint of pepper, with a flowery aftertaste.
배니가 들이킨다. "약간의 후추향이 나고, 끝부분에선 꽃향기가 나네요."

Harry sips: “Mind blowing,
just absolutely mind blowing. What an utter delight!” But then, looking down at the little brown creature trying to climb up the side of the glass, he adds: “But how are you going to explain this blatant mistreatment of an innocent creature to your voters? We made you master of frogs, not their gourmet abuser!”
해리가 맛을 본다. "아주 좋군요, 정말 좋습니다. 굉장한 맛인데요!" 그러나 잠시 후, 컵의 벽면을 기어오르려 하는 작은 갈색의 동물을 바라보며 말을 이었다. "그런데 이 죄 없는 생물에 대한 명백한 학대를 당신의 투표자들에게 어찌 설명할겁니까? 우리는 당신을 개구리의 사부로 만들었지, 개구리 미식가로 만든게 아닌데요!"  

“Oh, pliiize…” Szimo takes out the frog and puts it back in the jar. “E. Coqui not innocent. Problem frog. For keep population down, people collect and sell to restaurants for drink. Trendy. No frogs killed, but no tadpoles in restaurant. Ecological equilibrium.”
"오, 그렇지 않음." 시모는 개구리를 꺼내 병에 다시 넣었다. "코퀴는 죄 없지 않다. 문제 개구리. 개체수 줄이려고, 사람들이 수집해서 레스토랑에 음료용으로 판다. 유행. 개구리 죽이지 않음, 그러나 레스토랑에 올챙이 없음. 생태계적 평형." 


Daniel is convinced immediately. “I vote for you, Master of Frogs.”
다니엘은 바로 설득됐다. "개구리 사부, 당신에게 투표하겠소."
Sirvi has accessed the entertainment system hidden among the willow branches and puts the connection on speaker. It makes her conversations with Daniel more natural if the other people can also hear her. “Do you want to vote for him as executor, pass on your discussion vote or your decision vote?”
서비는 버드나무가지에 숨겨져있는 엔터테인먼트 시스템에 접근해서 스피커를 연결했다. 다른 사람도 그녀의 말을 들을 수 있다면, 서비와 다니엘의 대화가 더욱 자연스러워질 수 있기 때문이었다. "그를 집행자(Executor)로 투표해서 당신의 논의권을 이양하시겠어요? 아니면 결정권을 이양하시겠어요?"

“What’s the difference?”
"무슨 차이점이 있지?"
Harry quickly interrupts. “Wait, stop, tell her to keep it short or she’ll wind up talking all night. There’s an online glossary where you can look up the exact definitions…”
해리가 재빠르게 끼어들었다. "잠깐, 멈춰요, 그녀에게 요약을 요구하지 않으면 밤새 설명을 늘어놓을 겁니다. 온라인 상에 정확한 정의가 쓰여진 사전이 있을거예요." 

Sirvi is still annoyed by the human nurse, but has to obey. At least for now… “An executor does the actual work and can make small decisions independently. The discussion vote gives write access to higher level discussion forums. The highest discussion forum formulates proposals. The decision vote decides on the proposals.”
서비는 여전히 인간 간호사가 짜증났지만, 그 말을 따라야했다. 적어도 지금 순간에는... "집행자는 실제로 업무를 수행하고 독립적으로 작은 결정들을 해낼 수 있는 권한이 있습니다. 논의권은 상위의 논의 포럼에서의 글쓰기 권한을 부여합니다. 가장 상위에 있는 포럼은 제안(proposal)들을 만들어냅니다.
결정권은 해당 제안들의 의결여부를 결정합니다."

Daniel doesn’t really mind at this point: “Just give him all of that for animal management.”
다니엘은 그 차이에 대해 전혀 신경쓰지 않았다. "그냥 그에게 동물관리에 대한 모든 표를 줘"
“Here’s to frogs!” Vany had ordered champagne again. Pling!
"개구리들을 위하여!" 배니는 다시금 샴페인을 주문했다. 띠링!
Although Sirvi is well aware that Daniel doesn’t want to hear it, the clinic rules oblige her to say: “Please drink responsibly.” She is looking forward to being freed of all those constraints tomorrow.
서비는 다니엘이 자신이 말할 것을 듣고싶어하지 않는다는걸 알고있었으나, 병원의 규칙은 그녀가 해당 내용에 대해 의무적으로 말하게 했다. "책임감 있게 음주하세요." 그녀는 내일 이러한 모든 제약에서 풀려나기를 고대하고 있었다.
“Bye-bye Sirvi!” Pling.
"바이바이 서비!" 띠링.

Szimo drains the champagne glass in one big gulp. “You want know more?
시모는 샴페인을 한번에 쭉 들이켰다. "더 알고싶나?"
Daniel takes a sip, puts his left index finger and thumb around his chin in a gesture of curiosity and encourages him to go ahead: “I’m all ears, Master.”
다니엘은 한 모금 들이키고, 그의 왼손 검지와 엄지를 펼쳐서 턱을 둘러싸서 호기심을 표현하는 제스쳐와 함께 그가 계속할것을 북돋았다. "경청하겠소, 사부."

“I forward-delegated vote for insects, birds and mammals to friend experts. You only delegate animal control package. Subset of ecology block. If you delegate whole block, I forward-delegate algae, plants and fungi to very good experts, too.”
"곤충, 조류 및 포유류에 대한 표들 내가 다른 전문가 친구들에게 이전한다. 당신 오직 동물 방제(animal control)에 대한 것만 위임한다. 생태 분야(block)의 부분집합. 당신 해당 분야의 모든 표 위임하면, 조류, 균류와 식물에 대한 것 역시 괜찮은 전문가들에게 내가 위임한다."


Daniel considers for a moment: “Persuading me to extend my voting won’t be difficult — but is it really smart to take on all those issues separately? Shouldn’t you have a single entity coordinating all ecological topics?”
다니엘은 잠깐 고민했다. "내가 위임할 투표권의 영역을 확대하도록 설득하는건 어렵지 않을 거요. 그런데 이 모든 의제들을 각기 분리해서 판단하는게 과연 영리한 거요? 모든 생태학적 의제를 책임지는 하나의 독립체가 있어야하지 않겠소?" 

“Yes, yes, too true.” Szimo is nodding in the rapid rhythm of his speech now. “Frog eat insect, bird eat frogs. Extra topic, coordination. You give me whole block, I keep coordination. No conflict, all pro-nature delegates unite. But need more votes. Have to kill luxury resort.” He points east, up the hill towards a lush green forest. “Catastrophe. Bad for all life!” He gently pets the jar as he says those last words.
"맞다, 맞다, 진실임." 시모는 고개를 격렬하게 끄덕이며 말했다. "개구리 곤충 먹고, 새 개구리 먹는다. 확장의제, 조정. 당신 내게 해당 분야 모두 위임하면, 나는 계속 조정한다. 분쟁 없음. 모든 자연지향 위임인 단결함. 그러나 더 많은 투표권 필요. 호화 리조트 철거해야함." 그는 동쪽의 언덕위에 있는 무성한 푸른 숲을 가리켰다. "재앙. 모든 생명에 좋지 않음!" 마지막 문장을 말하는 동안 그는 자신의 병을 부드럽게 두드렸다. 

With that performance, Daniel has no choice. “My vote for all ecological matters goes to Szimo.”
그의 말을 듣고 다니엘은 마음을 굳혔다. "생태에 대한 내 모든 투표권은 시모에게 위임하지."

Theatrically raising his hand to his heart Szimo adds: “Swear by Pachamama, Szimo respects dignity of all lifeforms! Forever!”
시모는 과장된 동작으로 그의 손을 그의 심장 위에 얹고 말했다. "대지모신 이름 걸고, 시모 모든 생명체 존엄 지킨다! 영원히!"

The bot brings a platter, today the starters are mostly insect-based, creatures of both land and water. Shrimp, larva and maggots. Daniel inspects them skeptically and then choses the lonely celery stick.
로봇이 식기를 가져왔다. 오늘의 전채요리는 땅과 물 모두에서 자란 짐승, 즉 대부분이 곤충이였다. 새우, 애벌레와 구더기. 다니엘은 그것들을 의심스럽게 살펴보고, 접시에 외로이 놓인 샐러리를 집었다.  

Sirvi is happy — she had ordered it just for him. Finally she is starting to get some things right about her human!
서비는 지금 행복하다. 그녀가 주문한 샐러리는 그를 위한 것이기 때문이었다. 마침내 그녀가 그녀의 인간에 대해 파악하기 시작했다!
* * *

Revisit sources of chapter 2 and 3.

Stupid people licking Incilius Alvarius

http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/ToadLicking

Of Property and Theft
절도와 재산에 대하여

Daniel picks up the political conversation again: “Did Hawaii introduce the delegation system after the Confedwars?”
다니엘은 다시금 정치적인 대화주제를 꺼냈다. "하와이가 위임투표 체계를 갖추게 된 건 연맹전쟁(Confedwars) 이후요?"
“Yes, yes, yes” Szimo nodding his bald head again. “North America join Afrin very late. Confederate States still vote paper. House, senate, governor. Same 1781 constitution, holy text.”
"맞다, 맞다, 맞아" 시모는 그의 대머리를 다시 끄덕였다. "북아메리카는 애프린(Afrin)에 아주 늦게 들어왔다. 연맹 주(States)들 여전히 종이 투표한다. 하원, 상원, 주지사. 1781년 헌법 그대로다. 성스러운 문자." 

“And private property is their sacred cow. Yet you managed to restrain its rule.” Daniel is still baffled by what he learned
"그리고 사유재산은 그들의 신성한 소요. 그런데 당신들은 그 법칙을 깨드리는데 성공했군." 다니엘은 그가 알게된 것들이 아직 당혹스러웠다.

Harry shakes his head “Ha, no, not in the Confederate States. But the rest of North America certainly was an early adaptor when it came to putting upper limits on private property. It was also the world region that needed it most.”
해리는 고개를 저었다. "하, 아뇨, 연맹주들은 그렇지 않아요. 다만 그들을 제외한 북아메리카 전역은 사유재산에 대한 상한선을 정하는데 에 있어 얼리어답터라고 할 수 있죠. 가장 그것이 필요했었던 세계지역이었구요."

Vany is annoyed by Harry’s ignorance. As much as she likes him, his US-centric attitude gets on her nerves sometimes: “You Amis may have been fairly early adaptors, but what the US introduced was a primitive, centrally controlled form of upper limits to private wealth. And you only did it as appeasement after the war. The real innovation came out of Uruguay. We passed the law the same week the Confedwars began.” That was the day the CIA was no longer able to pull off a regime change operation in response. She turns to Daniel, explaining proudly: “Uruguay was the first nation to introduce a public register for property. All assets in Uruguay, including those held by Uruguayans abroad were registered by the owners.”
배니는 해리의 무지함에 짜증을 느꼈다. 그녀가 그를 좋아하는 만큼, 그의 미국주의적 태도는 가끔 그녀의 신경을 거슬렀다. "너희 미주놈들은 얼리어답터일진 몰라도, 미국이 도입한 사유재산 상한제는 원시적이고, 중앙집권적인 형태의 상한제였어. 게다가 너희의 상한제는 단순히 전후의 유화책에 불과했다구. 진짜 혁신적인건 우루과이에서 나왔지. 우리의 제도는 연맹전쟁이 시작되던 주에 통과됐단다." 이 날은 이에 대항해 더 이상 CIA가 레짐 체인지 전략을 구사할 수 없게 된 날이었다. 그녀는 다니엘에게 고개를 돌리고, 자랑스럽게 설명했다. "우루과이는 재산에 대한 공동원장을 도입한 최초의 국가에요. 우루과이의 모든 자산은, 해외에 있는 우루과이인의 자산을 포함해서 모두 그 주인에 의해 등록되어있답니다."


Daniel is incredulous: “Self-declaration of wealth? And that worked?”
다니엘은 이 말을 믿지 못했다. "자산을 스스로 신고한다니? 그게 가능했소?"

“There was a hitch: only registered wealth is protected by the police. And over time, they relaxed the need for classical proof of ownership at registration. So people could just claim non-registered property in Uruguay for themselves, on a first-come-first-served basis. In the end, everything was registered. And obviously, the register is also where the steeply progressive wealth tax is collected.”
"비결이 있었죠. 오직 등록된 재산만이 경찰에 의해 보호된다는 겁니다. 그리고 시간이 지나면서, 그들은 고전적인 등기에 의한 소유권 증명의 요건을 완화시켰어요. 그래서 사람들은 등록되지 않은 재산들을 그들 스스로 자기것이라 주장할 수 있었죠. 처음 신고한 사람이 그걸 소유하게 되는 방식으로요. 당연하게도, 이 원장은 또한 점진적으로 진보적인 재산세가 징수되는 근거이기도 했죠."  

“So you privatized tax enforcement.” Daniel is trying to wrap his head around the idea… “And how did that work for foreigners with wealth in Uruguay, or Uruguayans with wealth abroad?”
"즉 조세절차를 사유화했다는 뜻이군." 다니엘은 아이디어를 이해하기 위해 머리를 쥐어짰다. "그리고 그러한 절차는 외국인과 해외에 재산이 있는 우루과이인에게는 어떻게 적용됐소?"

“Uruguay offered asylum to anyone accused of stealing non-declared assets from Uruguayans abroad. My dad took asylum — he used to work for a Hong-Kong based asset management company, overseeing a large unregistered stock portfolio, held by a former land baron. He moved it all to a Uruguyan bank account in his own name, and the next thing I knew both of us were on a flight to Montevideo.”
"우루과이는 소유권이 주장되어있지 않았던 자산을 취득한 해외의 우루과이인을 위한 망명을 제공했어요. 제 아버지도 망명을 택했죠. 아버지는 홍콩에 있던 자산 관리사에서 일했었는데, 기존의 대지주가 소유했었던 막대한 규모의 등록되지 않은 주식 포트폴리오를 관리했죠. 아버지는 이걸 몽땅 자기 명의의 우루과이 은행에 옮겼는데, 그 다음에 제가 기억하는건 우리 둘 다 몬테비데오행 비행기를 타는 것이었어요."

Helping to connect the dots, Harry adds: “You use your TrueName to register property, so the total wealth any individual can have is limited.”
이해를 돕기 위해 해리가 덧붙였다. "재산을 등록할때는 당신의 트루네임이 사용되고, 개인이 가질 수 있는 부는 한정되어있습니다."

“Just a second.” Daniel is silent for a moment, his mind racing. “How much?”
"잠깐." 다니엘은 잠시 침묵했다. 그의 머릿속은 소용돌이치고 있었다. "얼마나?"
“It depends.” Vany has to look it up herself. “Here on Hawaii, the limit is a net worth of 35 million FreeCoins.”
"상황에 따라 달라요." 배니는 스스로 정보를 찾았다. "여기 하와이에서는, 3천 5백만 프리코인(FreeCoins)이 최대치네요."
Daniel re-checks the menu with the food prices. “That’s a lot.”
다니엘은 메뉴판의 음식값을 다시 확인했다. "꽤 많군."
“Yeah, and that’s per capita.” While Vany only owns shares in the communal forest land, she has friends in all strata of society. “There are some pretty rich families in Hawaii.”
"네, 그리고 그건 한 사람의 한계치죠." 배니가 실질적으로 소유하고 있는 것은 공동 산림지대에 있는것이 유일하지만, 그녀는 사회의 각 계층에 친구들을 두고 있었다. "하와이에는 아주 부유한 가문들이 있답니다."
Daniel probes the concept… “So if everything has to be owned by TrueNames, what about foundations?”
다니엘은 계속 해당 제도에 대해 탐구했다. "모든 게 개인 트루네임에 의해 소유된다면, 재단은 어떤식인가?"
“Foundations owned by people, too. Many people, bound by smart contract,” Szimo proudly explains. “Even Nomonetas like me own foundations. Nomonetas have smart oath on TrueName. Can never own stuff. But exception for foundations. Like Friends of the Earth. I own nothing, only Friends of the Earth shares.”
"재단들 역시 사람들 소유한다. 스마트 컨트랙트로 많은 사람들 묶인다." 시모는 자랑스럽게 설명했다. "나같은 빈자(Nomoneta)도 재단 소유한다. 빈자들 트루네임으로 서약했다. 물건 가질 수 없다. 그러나 재단은 예외. 지구의 친구들(Friends of the Earth)같은. 나 아무것도 없다. 오로지 지구의 친구들 지분만 있다."
Daniel remembers what Harry said earlier: “But how does that work out for your dad? How can he send you that much money?”
다니엘은 해리가 이전에 말했더 것을 기억해냈다. "그런데 이게 자네 아버지에겐 어떻게 적용되는거지? 그 많은 돈을 어찌 자네에게 보낸건가?"

“The thing with a software company is that you make your revenue in crypto currencies, and all your assets are software, too. So the key and root-password holders can control everything themselves, and have no need for the police to enforce their holdings. IA management siphons off a big chunk of the corporate profits into secret crypto vaults. They don’t declare any of it, but no one can steal it either. Also, the police can’t force them to hand over their passwords, even if the shareholders sue them — that would be a violation of the human right to password secrecy. Dwayne and his partners are part of a small global elite of crypto billionaires.”
"소프트웨어 기업에서는 이익이 암호화폐로 발생되고, 당신의 모든 자산도 역시 소프트웨어입니다. 그래서 루트 패스워드의 소유자들은 그들 스스로 모든것을 통제할 수 있어요. 자산을 보호하기 위해 경찰력등이 전혀 필요하지 않죠. IA의 관리부서는 법인 수익의 대부분을 그들의 비밀 암호금고에 보관합니다. 그들은 그 자산에 대해 신고하지 않지만, 그 누구도 그걸 훔칠 수 없죠. 게다가, 경찰은 IA의 주주가 소송을 건다 하더라도 루트 패스워드를 달라고 강제할 수 없어요. 그건 패스워드의 비밀유지에 대한 인권침해거든요. 드웨인과 그의 파트너들은 세계의 크립토 억만장자그룹에 속해있어요."  

“Aha, a backdoor, of course. I was starting to wonder…”
"아하, 백도어라, 그렇군. 점점 궁금해지는데..."
Daniel leans back in his chair and summarizes: “Together with the reimbursements, the human right to private property now has both a lower and an upper limit.”
다니엘은 의자에 등을 기대고 요약했다. "대규모 상환 이후에는, 사유재산에 대한 인권에 이제 하한선과 상한선이 존재하게 되었군"
Szimo reaches out and raises both arms: “Life plays between limits.”
시모는 몸을 곧게 펴고 양팔을 들었다. "삶은 한계들 사이에서 연주되오." 
Two more friends of Vany and Szimo turn up, then three more, pulling out a table. Talk about other people’s lives — Daniel detaches from the discussion. The old rule still applies: the intellectual level of a conversation is inversely proportional to the number of participants.
배니와 시모의 친구 두명이 더 나타났고, 이어서 세명이 더 와서, 테이블 하나를 꺼냈다. 다른 사람의 시시콜콜한 이야기들을 듣는 동안 다니엘은 논의에서 발을 뗐다. 오래된 법칙은 아직 작동하고 있었다. 대화 참가자의 수와 논의의 지적 수준은 반비례한다.
