전제주의적 재산권에 대한 사고실험

[…]

Daniel zaps through the available Confedwars. They’ve completed all the main story missions by now, unlocking the Extro. A game designer at IA apparently thought it was a good idea to end the game with a level called “How it all began”. The extro level is set in Wyoming, October 2033, the earliest date of all Confedwar levels. Daniel picks the “neutral stranger” as his starting position and “foreign academic” as his character, planning to simply play himself. Launch.
다니엘은 플레이할 수 있는 컨페드워즈의 시나리오를 탐색했다. 그들은 모든 메인 스토리 미션을 마쳤고, 결말 부분을 해금했다. IA의 개발자는 "어떻게 모든것이 시작되었는가"챕터를 가장 마지막에 배치하는 것이 좋은 아이디어라고 생각한 모양이다. 결말 레벨은 모든 컨페트워즈 레벨 중에서 가장 이른 시기인, 2033년 10월의 와이오밍으로 세팅되어있었다. 다니엘은 "중립적인 이방인"을 그의 시작포지션으로 선택했으며, 자기 스스로를 플레이할 심산으로, "외국인 학자"를 캐릭터로 골랐다.
He’s on a street corner and the first thing he notices is dust, as the opening chords of ‘Here’s to you’ start to play. A lot of dust, all over the place, and the graphics are different this time — not the usual Confedwars hyperrealism, but a Sepia-Filter giving the entire world a nostalgic touch. Then, what a cliché, a tumbleweed rolls across the road.
그는 길 모퉁이에 서있었으며, 그가 가장 먼저 알아챈 것은 'Here's to you'의 전주부분 코드가 연주되는 동안 곳곳에 보이는 먼지였다. 보이는 모든 장소가 먼지로 뒤덮여 있었고, 그가 보는 그래픽은 이번에 뭔가 좀 달랐다. 컨페드워즈에서 보통 볼 수 있는 극사실주의적 그래픽이 아닌, 향수를 불러일으키는 적갈색 세피아 필터링이 온 세상을 칠하고 있었다. 그리고, 아주 전형적인 클리셰로군. 회전초 하나가 거리를 굴러다니고 있다. 
It’s high noon, and no one in sight, except a homeless person sleeping under the town sign. “Welcome to Rawlins” and below that, in smaller letters “Carbon County”, and even smaller “Wyoming”. Though the sign is faded and barely legible, he can still make out a single white star on blue ground in the upper right corner. He walks into town as the soundtrack reaches its peak. It’s all run down, including the few people scuttling along the streets. Most of the yards have for-sale signs, broken windows, weeds growing everywhere. More dust, and the song ends.
시간은 정오였고, 마을 표지판 아래에 잠들어있는 노숙자를 제외하고는 아무도 눈에 띄지 않았다. "롤린스에 어서오세요"그리고 그 아래에는, 작은 글자로 "카본 주", 더 작은 글자로는 "와이오밍"이라고 쓰여있다. 비록 표지판이 바래어 간신히 알아볼 정도긴 해도, 다니엘은 우측 상단에 있는 파란 배경에 놓인 하얀 별을 발견할 수 있었다. 다니엘이 마을 안으로 들어가자 배경음악은 절정부분에 이르렀다. 길 어귀를 바삐 거니는 사람들과 마을은 모두 황폐해 보였다. 대부분의 마당에는 판매중 표지판이 놓여있었고, 깨진 창문과 잡초들이 즐비했다. 먼지가 더 일었고, 음악은 끝났다.  
Two teenagers on bicycles, a girl and a guy. “Hey old man, how ya doin’?” The guy is a gangly redhead with a birthmark on his left cheek. Torn hoodie, jeans, baseball cap.
두 명의 십대 소년, 소녀가 자전거 위에 있었다. "어이 아저씨, 요새 어때요?" 호리호리한 붉은 머리의 소년은 왼 뺨에 점이 나있었다. 찢어진 후드, 청바지, 야구모자 차림이었다.
“Not too bad, how are you? I just got to town, looking for a bite to eat…” One of Confedwar’s most annoying features is the virtual hunger created by the neural stimulation of Daniel’s stomach area, it feels just like the real thing.
"그저 그래, 넌 어떠냐? 방금 마을에 막 도착했는데, 어디 좀 먹을데를 찾고있어..." 컨페드워즈의 가장 짜증나는 특징 중 하나는 신경자극에 의해 다니앨의 위장에 가상의 배고픔이 생성된다는 것이다. 그 배고픔은 진짜처럼 느껴졌다.
The girl points to the back of her bike. “Why don’t you just come with us? We still have some corn and eggs”, so Daniel jumps on behind. They head south, passing a burned out structure — the sign above the door says “Rawlins Coal Board”.
소녀는 그녀의 자전거 뒷쪽을 가리켰다. "저희랑 같이 가실래요? 아직 약간의 옥수수랑 달걀은 있거든요." 그래서 다니엘은 뒤에 올라탔다. 일행은 불탄 구조물을 지나쳐 남쪽으로 향했다. 문 위의 표지판에는 "롤린스 석탄 위원회"라고 쓰여있었다.
Daniel asks his driver: “What’s going on here, the burnt-out ruins…?” She gives him a guarded look. “You’re a foreigner, huh? Never heard of Burning November? There was a bunch of terror attacks last year. So everything shut down, all the mines are closed, and the little gas that’s left is pumped automatically. No jobs, no future, the tap water is still poisoned, Carbon County is dying. Anybody who can has already moved away. We’re lucky Jack’s parents have land, we at least get some food from there.” They’ve stopped at another ruined house, with another for-sale sign on the fence and go inside.
다니엘은 운전자에게 물어봤다. "여기 불 타버린 폐허에 무슨 일이 있었던거냐?" 소녀는 다니엘에게 경계하는 눈빛을 보냈다. "아저씬 외국인인가보죠? 불 타는 11월에 대해 들어본 적 없어요? 작년에 수 차례의 테러 공격이 있었어요. 그래서 모든것이 멈추고, 광산들은 문을 닫고, 남아있던 약간의 가스도 다 써버렸죠. 일자리도, 미래도 없고, 수돗물은 오염되어있고, 카본 주는 죽어가고있죠. 떠날 수 있는 사람들은 이미 다 떠났어요. 우리 땅이라도 있어서 천만 다행인게, 거기서 간신히 음식이나마 얻을 수 있거든요." 일행은 판매중 표지판이 서 있는 또 다른 폐가에 멈춰서서, 울타리를 넘어 안으로 들어갔다.
Ana decides it’s time for another personal reveal. She picks her real-life avatar and materializes by a fireplace, frying eggs and corn cakes in a cast iron pan just moments before Daniel arrives. “Hi stranger! I’m Ana.” Let’s see how long it will take him to figure out who she is playing. He’s only ever known her as Riki the Ninja.
애나는 지금 순간이 또다른 자신을 보여주어야할 순간이라고 결정했다. 애나는 그녀의 현실 아바타를 선택하고 난롯가에 구현화한 뒤, 다니엘이 도착하기 직전 달걀과 옥수수 케이크를 프라이팬으로 구웠다. "어서와요 이방인! 저는 애나에요." 어디 한번 알아채는데 얼마나 걸리는지 봐야겠군. 다니엘이 아는 그녀의 모습은 닌자 리키의 모습 뿐이었다.  

The tall redheaded guy gives him a nod. “I’m Jack. Welcome to the Rawlins Raccoons!” The other girl is called Wicki — Jack’s girlfriend. She immediately retreats, pulls up her hood, and hunkers down in a corner, riveted to her laptop screen while they chitchat over corn cakes and eggs. The simulation of taste and texture in the mouth feels strange and unreal, but at least the simulated hunger goes away.
길쭉한 붉은머리 소년이 다니엘에게 고개를 끄덕였다. "잭이라고 합니다. 롤린스 너구리들에 어서 오세요!" 다른 소녀의 이름은 위키, 그녀는 잭의 여자친구였다. 위키는 일행이 달걀과 옥수수 케이크를 두고 잡담을 나누는 동안 자리에서 물러나, 후드를 뒤집어쓰고 구석에 앉아 그녀의 노트북에 시선을 집중했다. 맛과 식감에 대한 신경자극은 요상하고 비현실적이었지만, 적어도 가상의 허기는 사라졌다.

Without looking up, Wicki calls out to them: “Hey raccoons, get this. They passed a new law. The county can sell empty properties if the owner can’t be reached. Where do we go if they sell our hideout?”
돌아보지도 않고서 위키는 일행을 불렀다. "거기 너구리들, 이것 좀 봐. 놈들이 새 법안을 통과시켰어. 주정부는 이제 원주인이 없는 재산을 팔아치울수 있대. 우리 은거지가 팔리면 어디로 가야되지?"

A mobile phone rings, Jack checks his messages. “This is unreal. My parents. The first message in months, and guess what? They’re selling the farm and moving to Utah. Goddammit!”
핸드폰 알림이 울렸고, 잭은 도착한 메세지를 확인했다. "이건 말도 안 돼. 엄마 아빠가 보냈네. 몇 달만에 처음 받는 메세지군. 그리고 내용이 뭔지 알아? 농장을 팔아치우고 유타로 이사가겠다는군. 빌어먹을!" 

And lights out. No more power. It’s new moon and pitch dark. Daniel is rapidly fading — another 10 out of 10 realism feature: He falls into real sleep on a virtual sofa. He couldn’t have said how much time passed in the outer world, but in Wyoming he’s sleeping in.
그리고 형광등이 꺼졌다. 전력이 더 없었다. 초승달이 뜨는 밤이었고, 사위는 칠흑같이 검었다. 다니엘은 급속도로 사라지고 있었다. 10점 만점의 10점짜리 인 현실적 요소의 또 다른 특징이었는데, 다니엘은 가상의 소파 위에서 진짜 잠에 빠졌다. 현실 세계의 시간이 얼마나 지났는지 알 수 없었지만, 어쨌든 와이오밍의 다니엘은 깊은 잠에 빠졌다.

Ana gets up a little before him and shakes him awake. “Come on, you’ve got to see this…” She pulls him to the window. “Wicki got a job in that new store over there.”
애나는 다니엘보다 일찍 일어나 그를 흔들어 깨웠다. "일어나봐요, 아저씨가 봐야할 게 있어요..." 애나는 다니엘을 창문으로 끌고왔다. "위키가 저기 있는 새 가게에서 일거리를 찾은 모양이에요."
Daniel hardly recognizes the Rawlins of yesterday. Big trucks, workers, renovations — they’re just putting up a “Wal-Rent-All” sign across the road. Ana and Daniel go in, and find Wicki stocking shelves. “Hey there! How’s it going?”
다니엘은 힘겹게 어제 자신이 봤던 그 롤린스를 알아봤다. 큰 트럭들, 노동자들, 곳곳의 공사현장들. 그들은 길가에 "월-렌트-올(Wal-Rent-All)"이라 쓰인 표지판을 세우고 있었다. 애나와 다니엘은 가게로 들어가서, 진열대를 채우고 있는 위키를 발견했다. "여어! 대체 이게 뭔 일이야?" 

Daniel is looking around the seemingly random assortment of household items “What’s this store?”
다니엘은 주위에 어지럽게 놓여있는 가정용품들을 둘러봤다. "여긴 어떤 가게지?"

Wicki replies: “Don’t ask me, but business is definitely booming. They’re buying all kinds of stuff and renting it out again. Clothes, vacuum cleaners, stereos, washing machines, just everything…”
위키가 대답했다. "저한테 묻지마세요, 근데 사업은 명백히 팽창하고 있어요. 놈들은 모든 종류의 물건을 사들이고 그걸 다시 빌려주고있죠. 옷가지, 진공청소기, 스테레오, 세탁기, 진찌 모든 종류에요..."

Ana has played the scenario before and knows what to ask for: “We need two bikes.”
애나는 해당 시나리오를 전에 플레이해본적이 있었고 무엇을 구해야 하는지도 알았다. "오토바이 두 대가 필요한데."
Wicki points across the aisle. “Over there, three dollars a week. Take the two green ones, they are in good shape.”
위키는 복도 너머를 가리켰다. "저쪽에 있을거야. 1주일에 3달러. 초록색 두대를 가져가도록 해. 걔넨 상태가 괜찮더라구."
Daniel and Ana go back to the house, the place has already been fenced off. Jack is arguing with a security guy, “Sorry man, but this is private property. You can’t just walk in there like that.”
다니엘과 애나는 집으로 돌아왔는데, 이미 주변에 울타리가 둘러쳐져있었다. 잭은 경호원과 입씨름 중이었다. "미안하지만 형씨, 여긴 이제 사유재산이요. 그냥 맘대로 들어올 수 없다고."

Jack is pleading. “Listen, we live there. Our stuff is all in there. You can’t kick us out just like that!” The security guard is unmoved: “I’m afraid we can. This house is owned by the Resiwal. I have to ask you to leave immediately, or I will call the police.”
잭은 애원했다. "들어봐요. 우린 여기 산다고. 우리 물건도 다 여기있고. 우릴 이렇게 내쫓는 법이 어딨어!" 경호원은 꿈쩍도 않았다. "여깄지. 이 집은 레지월(Resiwal)의 재산이요. 당장 여길 떠나지 않으면, 경찰을 부르겠소."

Jack’s body is tensing up, but Ana has the presence of mind to hold him back. She leans forward and grabs his shoulder. “Let it go Jack, brawling with security won’t help. Let’s get Wicki and figure out what to do next. You can’t get anything done from jail, you’ve been there before, right?”
잭은 분노로 몸서리쳤지만, 애나는 그를 붙잡아 둘 준비를 하고 있었다. 그녀는 앞으로 숙여 잭의 어깨를 붙잡았다. "어쩔 수 없어 잭, 경호원과 한 판 붙는건 쓸 데 없는 짓이야. 위키를 찾고나서 다음에 뭘 할지 생각해보자구. 감옥에선 아무것도 할 수 있는게 없어. 한 번 갔다와봤잖아, 그치?"

Daniel is watching their confrontation when a black SUV pulls up next to him. “Hi there! Are you Professor Proudhon?” Late thirties, blond hair, black business dress and heels.
다니엘이 일련의 상황을 지켜보는 동안 검은 SUV 한 대가 그의 옆으로 다가왔다. "반갑습니다! 당신이 프루동 교수 맞습니까?" 30대 후반, 금발, 검은 비즈니스 복장과 하이힐. 
“Yes?”
"그렇소만?"

“Pleasure to meet you. I’m Nancy Foster, Outreach and Media Relations Manager at Walfrastructure. We’re looking to hire someone of your caliber. Interested?”
"만나뵙게 되어 기쁩니다. 저는 낸시 포스터, 월프라스트럭쳐(Walfrastructure)의 아웃리치 및 미디어부의 매니접니다. 우린 당신과 같은 우수한 사람을 찾고 있어요. 관심있으신가요?"

Daniel is confused: “Ehm, sure?”
다니엘은 혼란스러웠다. "어, 그러지?" 

“Come on then, I’ll brief you in the car” Nancy opens the rear door with a welcoming flourish.
"그럼 타세요. 자세한 이야기는 차 안에서 나누죠." 낸시는 환영하는 모양새로 뒷문을 열었다. 

Daniel looks over at Ana and Jack, and realizes he has to decide right now between the resistance and the evil empire! But then — IA games usually allow more complex decision pathways, too. He whispers to Jack, “Meet you at midnight, by the old high school.” Jack nods and Daniel hops into the black Ford.
다니엘은 애나와 잭을 바라보고, 지금 순간이 레지스탕스와 악의 제국 사이에서 결정해야 하는 순간이라는 것을 깨달았다! 그러나 잠시 후, IA의 게임들은 보통 좀 더 복잡한 결정을 내릴 수 있다는 것을 상기했다. 그는 잭에게 속삭였다. "낡은 고등학교 건물에서, 자정에 만나도록 하지." 잭은 고개를 끄덕였고 다니엘은 검은 포드에 올라탔다.

“So, tonight the task is quite simple. As a professor, you certainly know the core literature on liberal market philosophy, right?”
"자, 오늘 과제는 제법 간단하답니다. 교수로써, 당신은 자유시장의 철학에 관한 핵심 문헌들을 알고있을거에요, 맞죠?"

“I sure do, the invisible hand, inefficiency of planning bureaus, creation of the public good through ‘every man for himself’ and so on.” Daniel quotes a few lines from Smith and Friedman from memory.
"물론이오, 보이지 않는 손, 계획경제의 비효율성, 모든 이가 사익을 추구할때 발생하는 공공선, 기타 등등." 다니엘은 기억에 의존해 프리드먼과 스미스의 몇 가지 문장들을 인용했다.  

“And don’t forget Rand.”
"랜드에 대해서도 잊지 마세요."

Daniel sighs — Ayn Rand, the quasi-religious fanatic plutocratic idol with her endless rants. “Yes, sure, Rand, entrepreneurs are all good looking angels.”
다니엘은 한숨을 쉬었다. 아인 랜드, 자본가의 아이돌인 그녀의 주장은 금권정치를 거의 종교수준의 광신으로 옹호했다. "그렇지, 물론이요, 랜드, 기업가들은 모두 훌륭한 천사다."

“Excellent. We need five minutes of that on camera.” The car pulls into a parking lot next to the TV studio located in a double-wide trailer. The spotlight is on Daniel, and he reproduces classic Atlas foundation propaganda, cherry-picked Adam Smith and Milton Friedman quotes, the greatest threat to freedom is the concentration of power, and he raves on about how the only good state is a small state, just hire the night watchmen to keep your holy private property safe and leave everything to the invisible hand. And once you just let those great entrepreneurs do what they are best at, they will solve all our problems, John Galt even breaks the first law of thermodynamics. Daniel rambles through the entire pantheon of plutocratic utopian propaganda, fantasies he’s always considered toxic bullshit, but still knows well enough to play devil’s advocate for a few minutes.
"완벽하군요. 카메라 앞에서 5분간의 연설을 하셔야 할 거에요." 차는 주차장에 있는 두 배쯤 확장된 트레일러에 설치된 TV 스튜디오옆에 도착했다. 스포트라이트가 다니엘을 비췄고, 그는 고전적인 아틀라스 재단의 프로파간다를 내뱉었다. 아담 스미스와 밀턴 프리드만의 명언을 입맛에 맛게 골라서, 자유에 대한 가장 거대한 위협은 중앙화된 힘임을 설파하고, 오직 작은 정부만이 좋은 정부이며, 당신의 성스러운 사유재산을 지키기 위한 야경국가만이 필요할 뿐, 나머지는 보이지 않는 손에 맡기자는 헛소리를 했다. 그리고 훌륭한 기업가들이 그들의 최선을 다한다면, 그들이 모든 문제를 해결할 것이며, 존 갈트는 심지어 열역학 제1법칙을 깨뜨렸다고도 말했다. 다니엘은 스스로 항상 해로운 거짓말이라고 여겼던, 그러나 몇 분 동안 그것을 옹호하는 주장을 하기엔 충분할 정도로 알고 있었던 금권주의적 유토피아의 프로파간다를 지껄였다. 

Yet he can’t help himself from testing how well the game knows its own literature, and so he ends his speech referencing John Locke: “The highest power cannot take any part of a man’s property without his consent.” And indeed, the irony goes unnoticed, his speech is applauded without the slightest hesitation, despite Locke following up those words a few lines later by defining “his own consent” as the consent of the majority, putting this founding father of modern political philosophy well in line with his own anarchistic namesake.
그러나 다니엘은 이 게임이 과연 이러한 문헌에 대해 얼마나 알고있는지 시험해보려는 욕구를 억누르지 못했고, 그의 연설 마지막 부분은 존 로크를 인용하는것으로 마무리되었다. "가장 강력한 힘조차 누군가의 재산의 일부분이라도 그의 동의 없이는 가져갈 수 없습니다." 그리고 역시, 그 모순을 알아차린 사람은 없었다. 로크는 사실 뒤에 '그의 동의'를 다수의 동의로 정의하는 몇 가지 문장을 덧붙였는데, 이 현대 정치철학의 아버지를 그의 무정부주의적 성향과 일치시키는 그의 연설은 조금의 주저도 없이 갈채를 받았다.  

Nancy Foster closes the live show by claiming, “And now Wyoming has done it — freed from the oppression of the state, the new man is born and evolves to his full potential.” Obviously the capitalo-facists are also abusing evolutionary theory, as their kind have always loved to do.
낸시 포스터가 라이브 쇼를 마무리했다. "그리고 오늘의 와이오밍은 그것을 달성했죠. 국가의 압제로부터의 자유, 새로운 인간이 태어나고 그의 모든 잠재력대로 진화합니다." 명백하게도 자본가 파시스트들은 진화론조차 오용하고 있었다. 그들이 항상 즐겨 하던 일이기도 했지.

And that was that, he gets a thousand USD as promised, on a prepaid credit card. Nancy tells him, “I’ve got another gig for you. I’ll be driving to Cheyenne early tomorrow, it would be a $3'000 job for you this time. We need a consultant on privatizing the police force.” She proceeds to take him out to dinner with some other Wal-Corp employees, it’s the launch of a brand new club restaurant. Dinner with champagne, all kinds of fancy food, even caviar, woo-woo! Cheap symbolism. The business small talk is mind numbing, so Daniel decides to leave.
그렇게 된 고로, 다니엘은 약속대로 1000달러를 선불 신용카드에 지급받았다. 낸시가 넌지시 제안했다. "한번 더 저희랑 같이 일해보시죠. 내일 아침 일찍 샤이엔으로 갈건데, 이번 일은 3000달러짜리에요. 경찰력을 사유화하려는데, 컨설턴트가 필요합니다."
낸시는 다니엘과 다른 월 그룹 직원들을 데리고 새로이 영업을 시작한 회원제 레스토랑에서 저녁식사를 했다. 샴페인과 온갖 사치스런 음식들, 캐비어까지 있군, 와우! 싸구려 상징주의야. 사업과 관련된 이야기들이 너무 지루해서, 다니엘은 자리를 떠나기로 결정했다.

Fresh, cool air on his face, and Daniel starts walking towards the school. Losing his way costs him a few minutes, so he gets to the high school a little past midnight “Sorry, I got lost. What the hell is going on here? Where does all the money come from? And what’s their goal?”
신선하고 시원한 바람을 맞으며, 다니엘은 학교로 걷기 시작했다. 길을 찾는데 다소 시간이 걸려서, 그는 자정을 약간 넘긴 시간에 고등학교에 도착했다. "미안하군, 잠깐 길을 헤맸어. 대체 여긴 무슨 일이 일어나고 있는 건가? 저 돈이 다 어디서 난거지? 그리고 놈들의 목표는 뭐고?"

Wicki, head bent down at her phone: “And Walton is behind all of it. Here, I found the info. An indymedia forum on the dark web: John Walton, the last living Wal-Mart heir, net worth estimated at a ludicrous trillion dollars. He owns Mediawal, Walsecure, Resiwal, Walfrastructure, Enerwal, Comiwalcations, CleanWalter, Rent-it-Wal, all of them. See that logo?” She shows her phone to the others — a walrus on a shield, and crossed swords below it.
위키는 그녀의 핸드폰을 화면을 보며 말했다. "그리고 월튼이 이 모든 것의 배후에 있죠. 여기, 제가 찾은 정보가 있어요. 딥웹의 독립언론 포럼에 있는 이야긴데, 존 월튼, 월마트의 유일한 상속자의 순자산이 대략 수조 달러정도라는 미친 얘기에요. 그가 소유하고 있는 계열사가 미디어월, 월시큐어, 레지월, 월프라스트럭쳐, 에너월, 커미월케이션, 클린월터, 렌트잇월, 이렇게 있다는군요. 이 로고 보여요?" 위키는 그녀의 핸드폰을 일행에게 보여줬다. 방패 문양위의 바다코끼리(Walus)와 그 아래 놓인 교차된 검 문양.

“He definitely has a class-conscious sense of aesthetics…”
"놈이 계급 의식적인 미적 감각을 갖고있는 것이 분명하군..."

Wicki reads on. “The Indymedia journalist estimates Walton owns approximately 80% of all private property in Wyoming now, the trend is rising.”
위키는 계속 읽어내려갔다. "독립언론의 저널리스트가 추산키로는 월튼이 와이오밍의 모든 재산 중 80%를 소유하고 있고, 점점 더 늘어나는 추세라고 하네요."

Ana gives Daniel a wink: “We’re approaching the wealth singularity.”
애나가 다니엘에게 윙크했다. "지금 우리는 부의 특이점에 다가가고 있어요."

“Where one person owns everything.” He’s finally recognized his ally’s identity. The Ninja is a quick learner, already applying the singularity concept to other realms of life. He smiles at the female teenage avatar, and gives her a little wink.
"한 사람이 모든것을 소유하는." 다니엘은 마침내 그의 동료의 정체를 알아차렸다. 닌자는 뭐든지 빨리 배우는 타입이었고, 특이점 이론을 벌써 삶의 다른 영역에까지 적용하고 있었다. 다니엘은 십대 소녀 아바타에게 미소짓고, 그녀에게 윙크를 보냈다.

Jack interrupts: “Get this. Senator McPhail was out there promoting a new law to slow Wal down. She never made it to parliament on the day of the vote. Reason: she was driving on a Walfrastructure road with a non-licensed vehicle, namely her own. The terms of use allow only Rent-it-Wal cars to use those roads. They confiscated her car on the spot. By the time she made it to parliament on foot, six hours later, the vote had already gone down and her proposal was rejected.”
잭이 끼어들었다. "이것 봐요. 맥파일 상원의원이 월 그룹의 확장속도를 늦추는 법안을 홍보했었네. 그런데 의회 투표안건에 올리는데 성공하지 못했군요. 그 이유는, 그녀가 허가되지 않은 차량으로 월프라스트럭쳐의 사유도로를 운전했었기 때문이라는군요. 약관에 따라 렌트잇월의 차량만이 그 도로에서 주행할 수 있도록 되어있고, 놈들은 그녀의 차를 그 자리에서 몰수했어요. 그 덕에 맥파일은 의회까지 걸어서 가야했고, 정해진 시간보다 6시간이 지나버렸어요. 투표는 이미 끝났고 그녀의 법안은 거부되버렸네요." 

A moment of solemn silence, Wicki and Jack look at each other. Jack starts to sing in a low tune “Do you hear the people sing, singing the song of angry men…”
침통한 침묵의 시간의 순간이 지나고, 위키와 잭은 서로를 마주봤다. 잭은 낮은 목소리를 노래를 읊조리기 시작했다. "너는 듣고 있는가, 분노한 민중의 노래..."

His voice is amplified, and the revolutionary hymn from Les Miserables acoustically guides a passive bike riding sequence, where Daniel and Ana watch their avatars from above. A guard stops them when they reach the “Welcome to Cheyenne” sign with the walrus logo, the song fades out as they re-enter first person view.
그의 목소리는 증폭되었고, 애나와 다니엘의 시점이 그들의 아바타를 위에서 바라보는 시점으로 변환되는 동안 레미제라블의 혁명적인 찬가는 청각적으로 그들을 자전거 탑승 시퀀스로 인도했다. 그들의 자전거가 바다코끼리 로고가 새겨진 "샤이엔에 어서 오세요"표지판에 다다르자, 한 경비원이 그들을 제지했고, 노래는 그들이 다시 1인칭 시점으로 돌아오는 동안 점점 희미해졌다.

The Wal-Group has progressed much further here than in Rawlins. The entire town is waltified. The Walrus on the Shield is all over the place. Wicki has set up a meeting with the resistance on the indymedia forum. Waiting.
월그룹은 롤린스보다 샤이엔에서 훨씬 더 큰 장악력을 발휘하고 있었다. 마을 전체가 월그룹화 되어있었다. 온 동네가 방패 위의 바다코끼리 로고 천지였다. 위키는 독립언론의 레지스탕스와의 접선을 주도했다. 기다림의 시간.

“She should’ve been here by now…” Wicki is clicking away on her phone. “Oh Daniel! They’ve seen your TV spot — sorry, now we can’t take you with us.”
"지금쯤이면 그녀가 와 있을 텐데..." 위키가 그녀의 핸드폰에서 귀를 뗐다. "이런, 다니엘! 그들이 당신의 TV 장면을 봤어요. 미안하지만, 우리랑 같이 가긴 어렵겠네요."

Ana considers her options. She’s seen the end of the scenario from the corporate side before, and is curious how things play out at the resistance end. So she decides to separate from Daniel for a moment: “Wait, I have an idea! Here Daniel, take my phone and live-stream what happens the parliament.” Wicki and Jack agree, and Daniel gets moving.
애나는 그녀의 선택지들을 고려했다. 그녀는 이전에 회사편에 서서 시나리오를 끝마친 적이 있었고, 레지스탕스 측에서 플레이하면 어떻게 진행될지 궁금했다. 그래서 애나는 다니엘과 잠시 떨어지기로 결정했다. "잠깐, 나한테 생각이 있어! 다니엘, 여기 제 핸드폰을 가져가서 국회의사당에 생길 꺵판을 생방송하도록 해요." 위키와 잭은 동의했고, 다니엘은 계속 움직였다.

Parliament is in a historical building, fake Greek pillars and all. Daniel goes through security and meets Nancy inside: “Finally, here you are! Come on in, there’s a special event in the main hall.”
와의오밍 의사당은 모조 그리스풍 기둥으로 장식된 역사적인 건물이었다. 다니엘은 보안요원들 사이를 걸어 안쪽에서 낸시와 만났다. "아, 드디어 오셨네요! 이쪽으로 오시죠, 본관에 특별한 행사가 준비되어있답니다."

A gray-haired guy in a blue suit talks from the podium. “… But now I will no longer bore you and will introduce tonight’s superstar. And not just tonight’s, no, John Walton is the superstar of the century! A true Randian hero who brought back our beloved Wyoming from the brink — using nothing but the sheer force of his will! A big hand of applause, please!” Standing ovation from the senators and congress members as John Walton comes onstage.
푸른 양복을 입은 반백의 남성이 연단에 있었다. "... 이제 더 이상 여러분을 지루하게 하지 않고 오늘의 슈퍼스타를 모시겠습니다. 물론 오늘뿐만은 아니죠, 존 월튼은 세기의 슈퍼스탑니다! 위기의 와이오밍을 오로지 그의 순수한 의지로 다시 일으켜 세운 진정한 랜드주의자죠! 큰 박수로 환영해주십시오!" 존 월튼이 무대에 나타나자, 상원의원과 하원의원들이 기립박수를 보냈다.

John has a look of serene determination and of certainty, a look of ruthless innocence which would not seek forgiveness or grant it: “Citizens of Wyoming, the American Dream is finally real. The entire state is organized on free market principles, efficiency, business sense. Thanks to the WalGroup and its investments!” He allows a rhetorical pause, which Daniel fills with his own thoughts. Free market, what a joke — capitalism, okay, but when all goods on the market are owned by John, who would even call it a marketplace, let alone a free market? The woman sitting next to Daniel apparently agrees with him — she’s holding up a banner and security forces are moving towards her. But John interrupts them from the podium. “Oh, Senator McPhail, you have something to say?” She hesitates, apparently sensing a trap, but still gets up on stage.
존의 표정은 결단과 확신에 차 있었고, 용서를 구하거나 베풀지 않을 것 처럼 무자비한 결백을 보여주고 있었다. "와이오밍의 시민이여, 아메리칸 드림은 마침내 현실이 됐소이다. 주 전체가 자유시장의 원칙, 효율성, 사업감각으로 무장하고 있소. 월그룹과 그들의 투자에 감사를 표하는 바요!" 존의 수사학적인 침묵이 이어지는 동안 다니엘은 생각에 잠겼다. 자유시장이라, 그만한 농담이 없군. 자본주의, 좋다 이거야. 그런데 시장의 모든 상품이 존의 소유라면, 과연 누가 그 시장을 자유시장이라 부를 수 있을 것인가? 다니엘의 옆에 앉은 여성은 그의 생각에 동의하는 듯 보였다. 그녀는 깃발 하나를 갖고 있었고 경비원들이 그녀에게 다가오고 있었다. 그러나 존은 연단에서 경비원들을 잠시 멈춰세웠다. "아, 맥파일 상원의원, 뭔가 하실 말씀이 있소?" 그녀는 함정을 알아차린듯 잠시 망설였지만, 단에 올라섰다.      

“But before I hand you the microphone — let me demonstrate a brand new function of the Wal-Group project management software.” He pulls out a tablet, and the wall behind them lights up with a picture of children in a schoolyard. “Sarah McPhail.” Walton pushes a button. “The jacket your daughter is wearing, isn’t that a Rent-it-Wall model?” Two policemen appear in the schoolyard. “Ladies and gentlemen, let me show you the true meaning of libertarian freedom. I, the owner, will no longer let the offspring of this leech rent” — he looks at the senator with arrogance, tension and scorn and raises his voice “my property.” He swipes left on the tablet, and the screen shows policemen closing in on the girl, forcibly removing her clothes. John Walton talks on, giggling madly: “I only hope her underwear is not from Rent-it-Wall, that would be a little embarrassing for the young lady.” The policemen force the girl to take her shirt off. The other kids have formed a circle around them, pointing fingers and laughing. “Let’s zoom in a bit…” And indeed, there is the Walrus on the logo of her underwear.
"그러나 의원님께 마이크를 넘겨드리기 전, 잠시 월 그룹의 새로운 프로젝트 관리 소프트웨어의 시연을 보여드리겠소." 존 월튼은 태블릿 하나를 꺼내, 뒷 쪽의 벽면에 운동장에 있는 아이들의 사진을 띄웠다. "사라 맥파일." 월튼이 버튼을 눌렀다. "당신의 딸이 입고있는 겉옷, 저건 렌트잇월의 상품 아니오?" 두 경찰관이 운동장에 나타났다. "신사 숙녀 여러분, 자유지상주의적인 자유의 진정한 뜻을 보여드리겠소. 나, 렌트잇월의 주인은, 더 이상 이 거머리의 자식에게 무언가를 빌려주지 않겠소." 그는 오만하게 상원의원을 쳐다봤고, 경멸적인 어조로 목소리를 높였다. "내 재산이야." 그가 태블릿 화면을 왼쪽으로 휙 넘기자, 벽 면에 쏘아진 스크린에서는 경찰관들이 소녀에게 다가가, 옷을 강제로 벗겼다. 존 월튼은 미친듯이 낄낄대며 말했다. "속옷은 렌트잇월의 것이 아니길 바라야겠군. 어린 숙녀에게는 좀 당황스러울 테니." 경찰관은 소녀의 옷을 강제로 벗겼다. 다른 아이들은 소녀를 둘러싸고 손가락으로 가리키며 웃고있었다. "좀 더 확대해보지..." 그리고, 그녀의 속옷에는 바다코끼리 로고가 있었다.

Walton swipes right, and the policemen stop: “So now, esteemed Senator, What was it again you wanted to complain about?” The senator is ashen faced, shaken and silent. Walton moves in front of the podium, spreads his arms and proclaims:
월튼은 태블릿을 오른쪽으로 훑었고, 경찰관은 동작을 멈췄다. "자, 존경하는 상원의원, 말하려고 했던게 뭐였소?" 상원의원의 얼굴은 잿빛으로 질려있었고, 충격으로 인해 아무 말도 하지 못했다. 월튼은 연단의 앞으로 나서서, 그의 팔을 벌리고 선언했다.

“Le marché, c‘est moi!” His French has a terrible accent.
"Le marché, c‘est moi!” 형편없는 불어 억양이었다.

“вся власть на рынке”, whatever that meant.
“вся власть на рынке”, 뭐라는 건지.

“Markt macht frei.” His German is even worse than his French, and while his eyes focus on an imaginary point over their heads he continues,
"Markt macht frei." 그의 독어 억양은 불어보다 더 형편없었고, 그는 가상의 지점을 바라보며 계속 말했다.

“Make the market great again!”
"Make the market great again!"

A moment of silence — broken by shattering glass. “Behold, I’m your only salvation!” John screams those words in terror and runs offstage like a scared rabbit as resistance forces swing in through the broken windows. Jack’s at the front, leading the attack, an AK-47 slung over his shoulder. The image freezes, fades to grayscale, the Confedwars logo fades in, again playing ‘Here’s to you’ as the credits start rolling, starting with a summary of the Confedwars:
잠깐의 침묵은 유리 깨지는 소리와 함께 깨어졌다. "보아라, 내가 너희의 유일한 구원이니!" 깨진 유리로 레지스탕스들이 들어오자 존은 공포에 빠져 소리치며 겁먹은 토끼처럼 무대에서 도망갔다. 잭이 선봉에 서서 공격을 주도했고, AK-48이 그의 어깨에 둘러메여 있었다. 화면이 멈추고, 점차 흑백으로 전환되며 컨페드워즈의 로고가 나타났다. 'Here's to you'가 다시금 연주되며 크레딧이 올라갔고, 컨페드워즈의 요약이 시작된다.

- Six weeks of mayhem
- 6주간의 대혼란
- A death toll of 150'000
- 15만명의 사망자
- 20'000'000 people lose their homes
- 2천만명의 주거지를 잃은 인구
- Six months of military rule
- 6달간의 군부 통치
- The secession of Texas, the Holy State of Christ and the Confederate States
- 텍사스의 분리독립, 신성 그리스도 국가와 연맹 주
- The checks and balances for economic power amendment, article one of the renewed unions constitution and the world’s first absolute limit on private wealth.
-신 연합 헌법의 수정헌법 1조, 경제력에 대한 견제 및 균형, 그리고 사유재산에 대한 세계의 첫번째 절대적 제한
* * *
