Welcome to the Galaxy
갤럭시에 어서오세요
Ana’s just seen Phil in the cafeteria. He saw her, too, but didn’t come over when she waved at him.
애나는 식당에서 필을 발견했다. 그도 애나를 보았으나, 애나가 손을 흔들어도 그녀에게 다가오지 않았다.
His heart froze the moment he saw her. Phil will be moving to Uruguay in a week. And he can’t even explain to her why this is the most important thing in his life. His contact was uncompromising about it — nobody can know, not even if they’re Green Army Fraction sympathizers. They had also made it very clear that anyone close to him might be in danger if they knew. So he just pretends he didn’t see Ana and walks out. He needs to think it through first, and if they’re going talk, it certainly won’t be in a public place like this.
그의 심장은 애나를 볼 때 얼어붙었다. 필은 이번 주에 우루과이로 떠난다. 그리고 그는 그녀에게 이것이 그의 삶에 얼마나 중요한 것인지 설명할 수 없었다. 아무도 알아선 안 된다. 푸른 군대의 동조자라 할지라도. 그들은 필과 가까운 누군가가 이를 알아차린다면 모두 위험에 빠질것이라고 거듭 경고했다. 그래서 그는 애나를 못본 체 하고 걸어나갔다. 이에 대해 충분히 생각할 필요가 있었다. 그리고 서로 이야기해야 한다면, 당연히 공개된 장소에서 대화할 수는 없었다. 

He’s not responding to any of Ana’s twenty messages, either. The tears burst out the moment she closes the door to her room. What the fuck is wrong with that guy? They hardly knew each other before, but he can’t just pretend that night by the waterfall was nothing… Sad and angry, she decides to take the edge off by killing some stuff. In VR, obviously. The “reality first” spiel may have sounded convincing in the forest, but honestly, fuck Realigans. Fuck Phil. She logs in.
그는 애나가 보낸 20개의 메세지들도 무시했다. 그녀는 방문을 닫자마자 눈물을 왈칵 쏟았다. 대체 저 자식은 뭐가 문제인거지? 우리가 전에는 서로를 잘 몰랐다 하더라도, 폭포 옆에서 함께 밤을 보낸 게 아무것도 아니었다는 식으로 행동할 순 없어... 슬프고 화난 기분을 풀기 위해, 애나는 뭔가를 죽이기로 마음 먹었다. 물론 VR 세계에서. 그와 함께 있던 숲에서는 "현실 세계가 우선"이라는 헛소리에 잠시 귀가 혹했었지만, 개소리 집어쳐, X 같은 리얼충들, X 같은 필, 애나는 로그인 했다.   

First things first: Ana calls Sue, her best friend back in Venezuela. They meet on the rim of their favorite volcano. They first talk about Phil for a couple of minutes — but there is only so much to say about boys, so Sue calls it Bechtel time and they change to their favorite topic — their biggest idol. Sue and Ana have both been huge fans ever since they heard about Helen in their primary school cryptography class. Sue wants to hear everything about Ana’s Pseudonymous adventure searching for her. Ana gladly elaborates:
먼저 해야 할 일 부터. 애나는 베네수엘라에 있는 그녀의 단짝 친구인 수에게 연락했다. 그들은 가장 좋아하는 화산의 가장자리에서 만났다. 처음 몇 분간은 필에 대해 이야기했는데, 그런 이야기는 끝도 없이 이어질 것이었다. 그래서 수는 대화주제를 그들이 가장 좋아하는 주제로 전환했다. 그들만의 아이돌. 수와 애나는 초등학교 암호학 과목에서 헬렌에 대해 처음 듣게 된 때부터 헬렌의 광팬이었다. 수는 애나가 헬렌을 찾기 위해 수다니머스(Pseudonymous) 여기저기를 들쑤셨던 모험담을 듣고싶었다. 애나는 달갑게 이야기를 풀었다.   

She’d followed the lead discovered by her thesis to a point where it started to scare her — the Pseudonymus archive requested her geolocation at entry. Feeling like a proper spy, she had even printed a set of fingerprint modifiers before she left home. Later that evening, she’d driven to Pium, a mosquito-invested village two hours west of Palmas. Pium has a reputation as a location for anonymous VR porn dumb holes, making it ideal for undercover investigations. She had found a place accepting cash payments and requiring no TrueName login, entering Galaxycraft there.
그녀는 자신의 가설에서 발견한 단서를 따라가면서 두려움을 느끼는 지점에 까지 이르렀다. 수다니머스 아카이브는 접근을 위해 그녀의 지정학적 정보를 요구했었다. 마치 진짜 스파이가 된 기분을 느끼며, 그녀는 집을 떠나기 전 모조 지문까지 출력해왔다. 그날 늦은 저녁, 그녀는 팔마스에서 차로 2시간 거리에 있는, 모기가 들끓는 마을인 피움으로 갔다. 피움은 익명 VR 포르노의 총본산이었고, 따라서 언더커버 수사활동을 하기에 이상적인 곳이었다. 그녀는 트루네임 로그인 없이 현금으로 접속을 제공하는 곳을 발견했고, 그 자리에서 갤럭시크래프트에 접속했다.  

The archive had requested her geolocation, permission granted — located in Pium — and she was in. The full list of Pseudonymous members was right there, if outdated — from 2043, but still. She remembers holding her breath, searching for Helen’s name.
아카이브는 애나의 지정학적 위치를 전송받았다. 접근 허가됨, 위치: 피움. 그리고 그녀는 아카이브에 접속했다. 수다니머스 모든 멤버의 목록이 그곳에 있었다. 2043년 목록이니 예전 목록이긴 했지만, 어쨌든. 그녀는 숨을 죽이고, 헬렌의 이름을 검색했다. 

Ana had barely managed to copy the profile data before her access shut down and Pseudonymous fighters appeared. After logoff, she’d printed the info on a sheet of paper from the IA suit’s memory and got out of town as fast as she could, taking a detour via an unmarked forest track, just in case they had a real world agent going after her. The downer came when she reached home: The contact details turned out to be invalid.
애나는 수다니머스 파이터가 나타나기 직전 프로필 데이터를 복사하고 그녀의 접속을 해제하는 데 성공했다. 로그오프한 뒤, 그녀는 IA 수트 메모리에 남아있던 데이터를 종이에 출력하고, 누군가 그녀를 쫓아올 것을 대비해 지도에 표시되지 않은 숲을 경유해서 최대한 빠르게 마을을 벗어났다. 그녀가 집에 도착하자 바깥에 폭우가 쏟아졌다. 데이터는 유효하지 않은 것으로 드러났다.

After a few very soothing hours with Sue, Ana curls up on her home screen sofa, cuddling her bunny prince. That’s when she gets the message from Daniel. She opens a voice channel.
수와 아주 즐거운 시간을 보낸 뒤, 애나는 소파에 웅크려 그녀의 토끼 왕자를 껴안았다. 그 순간에, 다니엘의 메세지가 도착했다. 그녀는 음성 채널을 열었다.

“Daniel! I wanted to write you earlier, sorry. I was really close! I found Helen’s nym, name and her address in Nevada in an old database by this spy organization… But they kicked me out before I could contact her. And the nym came up invalid when I pinged it. But at least that’s a starting point…”
"다니엘! 좀 일찍 소식을 보내려고 했는데, 미안해요. 거의 다 됐었어요! 헬렌의 nym과 이름, 그리고 네바다의 오래된 데이터베이스 주소를 발견했어요... 제가 접촉을 시도하기전 차단됐지만요. 그리고 nym도 신호를 보내봤는데 유효하지 않은 걸로 나타났구요. 그래도 이 주소부터 단서를 찾으면 될 것 같긴 한데..."

Daniel is alarmed — Ana sounds troubled: “Anything wrong?”
다니엘은 애나의 말을 듣고 깜짝 놀랐다. "괜찮은거 맞지?"

She swallows a lump in her throat. “Yes. No. I mean, I’m OK.” A tear rolls down Ana’s cheek inside the VR suit. “I saw the data two days ago. But it took a while to get in and safely out again, sorry I meant to write you earlier… I… I was distracted. By this guy. Anyway, I guess I’ve played all my cards now regarding Helen… Any more luck on site in Nevada?”
그녀는 목구멍에서 튀어나오려는 뭔가를 되삼켰다. "네, 아뇨. 아니 제 말은, 전 괜찮아요." VR 수트 안에서 애나의 뺨을 타고 눈물 한 줄기가 흘렀다. "그 데이터는 2일전에 발견했어요. 다만 안전조치를 취하는데까지 좀 시간이 걸렸죠, 일찍 말씀 못 드려서 미안해요... 그냥... 그냥 좀 바빴었어요. 왠놈 때문에. 아무튼, 헬렌에 대해 제가 할 수 있는 일은 다 해본 것 같아요... 네바다 쪽에선 뭐 찾은게 있나요?"

Daniel notes ‘this guy’ with curiosity. But first: “Helen left Gerlach in a chopper. Day before yesterday. I guess she got scared… At least she’s alive and still interacts with the world. No idea where she might have gone.”
다니엘은 그 '왠 놈'이 누군지 궁금했다. 그건 일단 제껴두고. "헬렌은 헬리콥터를 타고 겔락을 떴어. 2일 전에. 내 생각에 그녀는 겁을 먹은 것 같은데... 적어도 헬렌이 살아있고 세상과 단절되지 않았다는 건 알았으니 됐다. 어디로 가버렸는진 모르겠군."

Oh no, this day is just pure misery. Now she’s also fucked up Daniel’s love life. Ana briefly thinks about a quiet existence in a nunnery somewhere: “Oh no, don’t tell me it was my fault! I’m so sorry!”
오 이런, 오늘은 완벽한 불행 그 자체로군. 다니엘의 연인의 삶조차 망쳐버렸어. 애나는 어딘가에 있는 수녀원으로 가버릴까 생각했다. "세상에, 제 잘못이겠죠! 정말 죄송해요!" 

Daniel still feels empty, but he’d never blame Ana for what happened. “Don’t worry. After all, I asked you to look for her… I guess I could have expected her reaction to any attempt, but… “
다니엘은 여전히 공허감을 느꼈지만, 결코 애나를 탓하지는 않았다. "신경쓰지마. 어쨌든 난 네게 그녀를 찾아볼 것을 부탁한거고... 헬렌의 이런 반응은 내가 예상했어야만 했겠지. 하지만..."

Ana’s voice is trembling, she’s feeling terrible. “I’m so sorry I scared her! Is there anything I can do to make up for it?”
애나의 목소리는 요동치고 있었다. 그녀의 기분은 처참했다. "정말 죄송해요. 제가 헬렌을 겁먹게 했어요! 제가 뭐라도 할 수 있는 일이 있을까요?"

“Just let me get this straight… Did you say Helen is in a spy group?”
"잠깐 정리를 좀 해보지... 헬렌이 스파이 그룹에 있다고 말했었나?"

“Yes. The database archive I found was eight years old and no longer in use, but the group only became a powerful player more recently.” Ana checks out her printed notes “So, Helen was a galactic admiral with them in Version 21.83.”
"네. 제가 찾은 데이터베이스 아카이브는 8년 정도 묵었고 더 이상 사용되지는 않았지만, 수다너머스는 최근에서야 강력한 플레이어가 됐어요." 애나는 출력한 메모를 확인했다. "데이터에 의하면, 헬렌은 21.83 버전에서는 은하계 제독이었어요."

“Is that good news? I guess high ranking Pseudonymous agents are not simply hyperstim freaks pushing their nucleus accumbens all day long, right?” That would at least confirm that she’s not just an addict.
"그건 좋은 소식인가? 내 추측이지만 수다너머스의 고위 요원이 하루 종일 스스로의 중격의지핵을 자극하는 단순한 가상현실 중독자일린 없잖아, 그렇지?" 적어도 그녀가 단순한 중독자는 아니라는 것을 확인해주는 정보였다.

Ana confirms: “Definitely not. They’re the best spec ops team out there and Helen holds a top strategic rank among them.”
애나도 동의했다. "절대 아니죠. 그들은 최고의 특수부대고 헬렌은 개중에서도 최상위 계급에 있어요."

Daniel has a lump in the throat, his eyes filling up. “There must be a way to contact her… through Galaxycraft maybe?”
다니엘은 목이 메이고 눈가가 촉촉해졌다. "헬렌과 연락할 방법이 뭔가 있을거야... 어쩌면 갤럭시크래프트로 할 수 있지 않을까?"

Ana hears his voice change. He seems hurt, but unfortunately she has no good answer for him: “We should certainly try. But it won’t be that easy. The new Pseudonymous system is a lot more complex, there’s no central member database any more. Rumor has it that classic secret services used them as a recruitment pool, so as a galactic admiral Helen probably worked with a lot of people who now are higher-ups at regular security agencies. The difference between real world and game gets blurry there.” She has to think of Phil again for a moment. Realigans are just stupid, virtual and solid world are so mixed up, there’s no point in just ignoring half the world. Her disappointment with him is slowly turning into anger and contempt. How could she have a crush on such a douche?
애나는 다니엘의 목소리가 변한 것을 알아차렸다. 그는 상처받은 것 같았지만, 그녀는 적절한 대답을 강구해낼 수 없었다. "시도는 해봐야죠. 그런데 말처럼 쉽진 않아요. 새로운 수다너머스의 체계는 더 복잡해져서, 더 이상 중앙화된 요원 데이터베이스는 없거든요. 소문에는 첩보조직들이 새로운 첩보원을 선발하기 위해서 갤럭시크래프트를 활용하고 있다고 하더군요. 그러니 은하계 제독쯤 되는 헬렌이라면 그러한 첩보조직의 고위급 인사가 된 요원들과 여러 일을 해봤겠죠. 현실과 게임의 경계가 흐려지는 곳이랍니다." 그녀는 필에 대한 생각이 다시금 떠오르는 걸 멈출 수 없었다. 멍청한 리얼충들. 현실 세계와 가상 세계가 이토록 뒤섞여있건만, 왜 세상의 반 쪽을 무시하려고만 드는걸까. 그에 대한 실망은 서서히 분노와 경멸로 변해갔다. 내가 어쩌다 그런 개자식한테 홀딱 빠졌을까?   

Daniel thinks back of Claire’s description of her falling out with Helen. She said something about real meaning in VR and that she wouldn’t tell Claire for safety reasons. It starts to make sense. “The secret service is recruiting gamers?”
다니엘은 클레어가 어쩌다 헬렌과 멀어졌는지 설명했던 것을 되돌아봤다. 헬렌은 안전을 위해 클레어에게 자신이 VR에 접속하는 진짜 이유를 밝히지 않았을 것이다. 이제 좀 말이 되기 시작하는군. "첩보 조직이 게이머들을 채용한단 말이야?"

“Sure. Esport skills show up on most job requirements. Especially Galaxycraft.” And being in masters league definitely helped Ana get admitted to university.
"그럼요. 이스포츠 스킬은 대부분의 직업에서 요구하는 사항이에요. 갤럭시크래프트는 특히나 더 그렇죠." 애나가 마스터 등급에 있는 것은 그녀의 대학 입학에 큰 도움이 되기도 했다. 

Daniel remembers “Mh, they used to recruit gamers as drone pilots back in the day.” And putting it in the bigger picture “And generals in ancient China had to be Dan-Level Go players…” He pauses for a moment, thinking: “Sirvi, can you give me a short summary of the Pseudonymous wiki article?”
다니엘은 과거의 일을 끄집어냈다. "음, 예전에는 게이머들이 드론 파일럿으로 고용되곤 했는데." 그리고 더 큰 그림을 그렸다. "그리고 고대 중국의 장군은 승단한 바둑기사여야만 했지..." 그는 잠시 멈추고 생각했다. "서비, 수다너머스의 위키를 짧게 요약해주나?"

Sirvi cites: “They are a decentral autonomous secret service cooperative. The organization is based on a short codex, around the principle ‘No power for nobody’. As soon as they finish an operation, they publish all data and the details of how they got it. Their funding comes from an anonymous crowd, and sometimes even includes public service contracts.”
서비가 인용했다. "그들은 탈중앙화된 자율 첩보 조직의 협동조합 단체입니다. 이 단체는 'No power for nobody'(아무에게도 힘이 없다.)라는 규범 하에 행동합니다. 작전 하나를 끝낼때마다, 그들은 모든 정보와 이를 어떻게 취득했는지를 공개합니다. 이들의 재정은 익명의 대중들로부터 충당되며, 가끔은 공공기관의 계약도 수주합니다."

“Oh, I see.” So Helen found a place where she can do her spy agency stuff without compromising on her ethics, great for her. “Mh, so, I guess it’s time for me to play some Galaxycraft, too… How does the gameplay work?”
"아아, 알겠네." 그렇다는건 헬렌이 자신의 양심을 저버리지 않고 첩보 활동을 할 수 있는 곳을 찾았다는 거로군, 잘 됐어. "음, 그래서, 그 갤럭시크래프트라는걸 좀 해봐야겠는데, 정확히 어떻게 방식의 게임이지?" 

Ana falls back into her role from their first interactions — explaining the noob how to play a game: “It’s a multi-level galaxy simulation, so the type of play depends on your position in society — it can be a spy game, a solider game, a strategy game, a political simulation — you chose which job you take on in the game. And it encourages you to play jointly with your operating system in Archon mode, so you can train it to complement your play style. Maybe we should just start with a training round, that should help… Any preferences?”
애나는 다니엘과 처음 만났던 그 순간의 역할로 돌아갔다. 초짜에게 게임 방식을 설명하는 일 말이다. "갤럭시크래프트는 다양한 방식의 은하 시뮬레이션이에요. 따라서 자기가 어떠한 사회 구성원의 역할을 맡느냐에 따라 게임이 달라지죠. 첩보 게임, 군인 게임, 전략 게임, 정략 시뮬레이션 등, 자기가 원하는 플레이를 할 수 있어요. 그리고 플레이어 OS를 집정관 모드로 놓는 걸 추천할게요. 그러면 그걸 훈련시켜서 아저씨의 플레이 스타일을 보조할 수 있도록 할 수 있거든요. 음, 우리 일단 훈련 라운드부터 해보는게 나을 것 같아요. 꽤 도움이 될 거에요. 특별히 선호하시는 게 있어요?"

“Great idea. Let me try the strategy part first.” Gaming would at least get his mind off this mess.
"좋은 생각이야. 전략 부분을 먼저 플레이해보고 싶은데." 게임은 적어도 그의 파도치는 머릿속을 진정시켜줄 수 있으리라.

Galaxycraft. Action 7 of 10, Thrill, 10 of 10, Exploration 8 of 10, Realism 2 of 10, Sex 3 of 10, Altered States 3 of 10, Addiction Risk 7 of 10;
갤럭시 크래프트. 액션 7점, 스릴 10점, 탐험 8점, 현실성 2점, 선정성 2점, 섹스 3점, 신체변환 3점, 중독성 7점.

Ana is confused for a moment — the Addiction Risk rating is new, and she never thought of Galaxycraft of all games as addictive. There is so little sensual pleasure stimulation in it!
애나는 잠시 혼란스러웠다. 중독성 점수는 처음 보는 점수였고, 그녀는 갤럭시크래프트가 중독성이 높다고 생각해본 적이 없었다. 관능적인 자극이라고는 병아리 눈꼽만한 게임인데!

Launch Training Round… Matchmaking — as a team between a noob and a Master, they are placed in Gold League… Starting Game…
훈련 라운드 시작... 상대 검색중. 초보와 마스터가 팀을 이루자, 그들은 골드 등급과 매칭됐다. 게임 시작중...

It takes a couple of seconds to load. A thought crosses Ana’s mind, she could make the enemy units look like Phil… No, that’s too much. But she definitely wants to kill some stuff.
로딩에는 수 초정도가 걸렸다. 애나는 잠시 적 유닛을 필 처럼 보이게 만들까 생각했는데... 아냐, 그건 너무 과하지. 그러나 그녀는 분명히 뭔가를 때려부수고 싶은 심정이었다.

Daniel is standing in a dark room with fifteen other… worms. “I’ll do the harvesting.” “Attack squad over here.” “Defense here.” The worms split up throughout the room 
다니엘은 어두운 방에서 열 다섯마리의 다른... 벌레들과 함께 서있었다. "내가 자원 채집을 하지." "공격 분대는 여기로." "방어 분대는 이쪽이야." 벌레들은 방에서 서로 나뉘었다.

Lights go on and the games begin. They stand in a hall with several exits, and the other worms disappear. As the highest ranking player, Ana takes command: “Put your head in this hole here, it links you directly to the central system.”
불이 켜지고 게임이 시작됐다. 그들은 여러개의 출구가 있는 홀 안에 서있었고, 다른 벌레들은 사라졌다. 가장 높은 계급을 지닌 애나가 지휘를 맡았다. "아저씨 머리를 여기 있는 구멍에 대세요. 중앙 시스템과 직접 연결해줄거에요."

He does so, and now sees a pile of dirt from above. Worms crawling around it, and there are also some ants gathering blue crystals. Daniel can order them around with his hands. “This feels like an old real time strategy game. Gathering resources, building troops and smashing the opponents?”
그렇게 하자, 이제 시점이 탑뷰 모드로 바뀌었다. 벌레들이 주위를 기어다니고 있었고, 푸른 크리스탈을 채집하는 개미들이 있엇다. 다니엘은 손을 움직여 그들에게 명령을 내릴 수 있었다. "옛날 실시간 전략 게임 느낌이 나는데. 자원을 모으고, 병력을 모아 적을 깨부수는게 맞나?" 

“In principle, yes. This training round just covers the basic fighting simulation. I just made three scouting Zerglings, can you take command of them? Go out and scout for the enemy base, it must be somewhere in the north.”
"원론적으로는 그렇죠. 이 훈련 라운드는 기본적인 전투 시뮬레이션에 대한 거에요. 방금 세 마리의 정찰용 저글링을 만들었는데, 한번 명령을 내려보시죠? 나가서 북쪽 어딘가에 있을 적 기지를 찾아보세요."

Daniel enters the Zergling’s mind and rushes through the forest in first person view, followed by two EI-controlled bugs. He has claws and jaws and can run incredibly fast — but as he follows the blinking green lights indicating the way Ana wants him to go, he finds a bunker, and heavy machine gun fire is raining down on him. He’s hurt, draws back, and waits for new instructions.
다니엘은 한 저글링의 정신으로 접속하고, 나머지는 확장지능의 조종에 따라 따라오도록 한 상태에서 1인칭 시점으로 숲을 내달렸다. 그에게는 손톱과 입이 있었고, 엄청나게 빠른 속도로 달릴 수 있었다. 그러나 애나가 표시한 반짝이는 초록 빛을 따라가자, 그는 진지 안에서 쏟아지는 중기관총의 포화세례를 마주했다. 그는 다쳤고, 뒤로 후퇴해서 새 지시를 기다렸다.

As the scouting info comes in, Ana realizes they’re in an asymmetric scenario — she immediately calls for backup and considers her options. The enemy will be too strong for a straight up fight, but then, the best defense is an attack: “Hide in the forest. Morph yourself into an baneling there. Just go into child’s pose, kneel down, forehead on the ground. When you’re done, go in through the back door and try to blow up as many of those space construction vehicles as you can.”
정찰 정보가 들어오고, 애나는 그들이 현재 비대칭적인 시나리오를 플레이하고 있다는 것을 깨달았다. 애나는 즉시 병력을 충원하고 할 수 있는 것들을 생각했다. 정면대결로 이길 수 있는 전력차는 아니었으나, 최선의 방어는 공격이었다. "숲에 숨어요. 거기서 베인링으로 진화하세요. 아이처럼 몸을 웅크리고, 무릎을 구부리고, 이마를 땅에 대면 되요. 진화가 끝나면 적의 후방으로 침투해서 가능한 한 많은 일꾼들을 터뜨리세요." 

“At your command.” He feels his body swell, and, looking at himself, he notes that it is now a swollen green sack full of acid, ready to burst. The green dots lead him through the bushes and turn red between the blue mineral patches, indicating Ana’s attack order.
"명령에 따르지." 다니엘은 그의 몸이 부풀어오르는 것을 느꼈다. 그리고 스스로를 돌아보자, 자신이 산성 용액으로 가득 찬, 터지기 직전의 초록색 주머니들을 주렁주렁 달고 있는것을 발견했다. 초록색 점이 다니엘을 수풀 너머로 이끌었고, 곧이어 점은 붉게 변해서 푸른 미네랄 사이를 가리켰다. 애나가 지시한 공격 명령이었다.  

Ana had miscalculated the timing — the dropship is already here, and without baneling support in the defense, all they can hope to do is evacuate: “Dropship with hellbats! They’re already inside our hatchery!” Ana runs — or rather crawls rapidly — to the back exit. Infernally blue flames light up behind her, the heat burning. She made a flying Mutalisk, her last hope of escape… If Daniel does enough damage, then maybe, just maybe they still have a chance. She swings her arms up and down, the suit amplifying her movements into a rapid, insect-wing like swirl, but she’s too slow! A few marines arrive to support the hellbats, their machine gun fire gunning her down.
애나는 진입 타이밍을 잘못 계산했다. 수송선이 이미 공격위치에 당도했고, 베인링의 지원이 없는 아군은 무사히 후퇴하기를 바랄 수 밖에 없었다. "수송선에 화염기갑병이 타고있었어요! 벌써 우리 부화장 안으로 침입해버렸네요!" 애나는 출구를 향해 달렸다, 아니 그보다는 최대한 빠르게 기었다는 표현이 정확하리라. 지옥의 푸른 화염이 그녀의 바로 뒤에서 불타올랐고, 주위는 점점 달아오르고 있었다. 애나는 탈출할 수 있는 유일한 수단인 뮤탈리스크를 만들었다. 다니엘이 충분한 타격을 가했다면, 아마도, 아마도 아직은 기회가 있을 것이다. 애나는 팔을 위아래로 흔들었고, IA 슈트는 그녀의 동작을 소용돌이 모양의 재빠른 벌레 날개처럼 증폭시켰지만, 여전히 속도가 부족했다! 해병 몇몇이 화염기갑병을 엄호하기 위해 도착했고, 놈들의 기관총이 애나를 향해 불을 뿜었다. 

Daniel explodes in a rain of acid in the worker line and respawns in the base, surrounded by fire and fury.
다니엘은 적 일꾼들 사이에서 장렬한 산성 폭발을 일으키고 산화한 뒤, 화염과 열기로 가득 찬 본진에서 리스폰했다.

Ana takes a look at the map while respawning — Daniel’s baneling counter attack did some good damage, but the hellbats are still wreaking havoc in their main base — it’s over. She just says GG, and they find themselves in the main menu again.
애나는 리스폰 되는 동안 지도를 확인했다. 다니엘의 베인링 반격은 제법 쏠쏠한 재미를 봤지만, 화염기갑병들은 여전히 그들의 본진을 휘젓고있었다. 다 끝났군. 애나는 GG를 선언했고, 잠시 후 그들은 메인 메뉴로 되돌아왔다.

“Oh well, that was that. Sorry, I should have gotten those flyers out a little earlier — I’d hoped to catch that dropship before it could unload. They must have proxied it.”
"어 음, 끝났군요. 죄송해요. 그 수송선들을 좀 더 일찍 터뜨렸어야 했는데. 병력이 수송되기 전에 잡으려고 했었어요. 걔네들 분명히 대리 돌렸을거에요." 

Daniel doesn’t understand her explanation, but greatly enjoyed the experience: “That was incredible!” He’s covered in sweat and exhausted…”What a flash, that’s a thousand times cooler than Confedwars…” It was also a bit too bloody for his taste.
다니엘은 그녀의 설명을 이해하지 못했지만, 굉장히 좋은 경험이었다고 느꼈다. "엄청난 게임이었어!" 그는 땀범벅이 되어 기진맥진했다. "시간이 눈 깜짝할 새 지나갔군, 컨페드워즈보다 천 배는 더 재밌었는데..." 다니엘의 취향보다 조금 폭력적이긴 했다.

Ana brings Daniel into her new living room. She just finished it last week — it’s a floating castle, neon-violet lasers marking the edges and see-through force fields forming the walls, floating high above a volcanic planet, with great views on a landscape of constant eruptions, magma-flows and acid clouds sparkling with lightning all around them. She’s kept her old furniture though, so the corner of her high tech castle still features the décor of an antique punk squat.
애나는 다니엘을 그녀의 '거실'로 데려왔다. 지난 주에 막 단장을 끝낸 곳 이었다. 그곳은 계속해서 용암을 분출하며 산성 구름이 뇌전을 일으키는 화산행성 위의 부유성이었으며, 보랏빛 레이저가 성의 가장자리를 비추고 있고, 벽은 건너편을 볼 수 있는 역장으로 형성되어있었다. 애나는 그녀의 오래된 가구들을 계속 보관했기에, 그녀의 하이테크 성의 구석은 골동품 펑크 아지트로 조성되어있었다.

Daniel takes a moment to understand where he’s ended up, looks around confused: “Is this part of Galaxycraft?”
다니엘은 그가 도착한 장소에 대해 이해하기 위해 잠시 시간을 들였고, 주위를 둘러본 뒤 혼란에 빠졌다. "이것도 갤럭시크래프트의 한 부분인가?"

“No, that’s just my homescreen. Welcome.” Ana puts on the latest Sidana Witus LP on her Gramophone, and the lead guitarist starts performing on her table, shirtless. She was really into him a few years ago, but now, slightly ashamed, snaps him away and lets herself fall into her sofa.
"아뇨, 그냥 제 홈스크린이에요. 어서오세요." 애나는 시다나 위투스의 최신 LP를 축음기에 돌렸고, 웃통을 벗은 리드 기타리스트가 그녀의 테이블 위에서 공연하기 시작했다. 애나는 몇 년전에 그 기타리스트에 푹 빠졌었지만, 지금 당장은 조금 부끄럽군. 그를 치워버리고 애나는 소파에 누웠다.

Cheap pop melodies fill the room, C-G-F accords, and a gentle female voice singing of an unreachable loved one. Daniel makes himself comfortable on the graffiti covered Cheap pop melodies fill the room, C-G-F accords, and a gentle female voice singing of an unreachable loved one. Daniel makes himself comfortable on the graffiti covered lounge chair opposite Ana, still fascinated by the fractal explosions of lightning and magma all around them.


“Coffee?” Ana summons two cups of cappuccino: “Sorry, yours probably doesn’t taste very good — can’t help with the public suits.” She had modded her own IA suit with a proper Bodum coffee maker. Taking a sip, she looks up and can’t help laughing. Daniel looks totally ridiculous in his druid-dress walking on the force fields.

He holds the cup with both hands, sips, and feels a straw between his lips, squirting a little coffee into his mouth. It’s drinkable. Daniel smiles back at Ana and asks: “So, about that guy…? What was his name?”

“It’s nothing.” And after a few seconds of silence she adds: “OK — I had a date. With the teaching assistant from the micro-biotic programming class, his name is Phil, and we ended up talking all night long. Just talking, but I found him really interesting and cute. Turns out he’s just a dick. He was out of town for a while, but I saw him again today and he just ignores me. Doesn’t even reply to my messages. I should have known he’s a weirdo — I mean, who calls himself a Realigan and makes a huge deal of never using VR suits?”

“Well, maybe he was addicted at some point.” He remembers how Willi went zero alcohol in his senior year. “Sometimes total withdrawal is the only option to deal with an addiction problem.”

“Maybe. I don’t care. I’m over it. And anyway, I don’t want a boyfriend right now.” She’d rather not talk about it anymore, actually. But Daniel’s remark reminds her of her worries about her own habitual use and she’s curious to hear her friend’s views on addiction: “Were there already game addicts back in your youth?”

“Absolutely.” And, deconstructing the concept a little further Daniel adds: “Media addiction has been with us forever, there were even TV addicts, as absurd as it sounds. A predetermined schedule, no interaction, extremely repetitive, and yet lots of people would watch for hours nonstop.”

“Fortunately Galaxycraft design is not optimized for addiction.” At least that’s what they keep telling each other in Ana’s sports club. The 7 out of 10 warning made her doubt that collective opinion though. “I mean, yes, it has an incredible immersion factor, the social thing about working in teams and the continuous improvement of your mastery in collaboration with custom EI helpers, but it doesn’t have level-and-loot mechanics and only very mild sensual pleasure neurostim.”

They are both silent for a moment, drinking real coffee from virtual cups, both thinking about their own risk of addiction.

“I must admit that I’m a little lost in this day and age…” Daniel bites his lips. “My curiosity should save me from getting hooked on anything, there are too many new frontiers to explore.” At least he hopes so.

“Maybe. I don’t care. I’m over it. And anyway, I don’t want a boyfriend right now.” She’d rather not talk about it anymore, actually. But Daniel’s remark reminds her of her worries about her own habitual use and she’s curious to hear her friend’s views on addiction: “Were there already game addicts back in your youth?”

“Absolutely.” And, deconstructing the concept a little further Daniel adds: “Media addiction has been with us forever, there were even TV addicts, as absurd as it sounds. A predetermined schedule, no interaction, extremely repetitive, and yet lots of people would watch for hours nonstop.”

“Fortunately Galaxycraft design is not optimized for addiction.” At least that’s what they keep telling each other in Ana’s sports club. The 7 out of 10 warning made her doubt that collective opinion though. “I mean, yes, it has an incredible immersion factor, the social thing about working in teams and the continuous improvement of your mastery in collaboration with custom EI helpers, but it doesn’t have level-and-loot mechanics and only very mild sensual pleasure neurostim.”

They are both silent for a moment, drinking real coffee from virtual cups, both thinking about their own risk of addiction.

“I must admit that I’m a little lost in this day and age…” Daniel bites his lips. “My curiosity should save me from getting hooked on anything, there are too many new frontiers to explore.” At least he hopes so.

doubt that collective opinion though. “I mean, yes, it has an incredible immersion factor, the social thing about working in teams and the continuous improvement of your mastery in collaboration with custom EI helpers, but it doesn’t have level-and-loot mechanics and only very mild sensual pleasure neurostim.”

They are both silent for a moment, drinking real coffee from virtual cups, both thinking about their own risk of addiction.

“I must admit that I’m a little lost in this day and age…” Daniel bites his lips. “My curiosity should save me from getting hooked on anything, there are too many new frontiers to explore.” At least he hopes so.

“Same for me. I mean, I’ve got another month in college and no idea what comes next. But definitely an adventure.” At that moment the bunny prince hops through just behind Daniel. Ana gives it a sharp look, she doesn’t want Daniel to see her thesis. The bunny nibbles some celery and fades out.

Daniel smiles. He always enjoyed hanging out with smart kids, Ana reminds him of his first semester students back in Berkeley: “I did dream of those pink pills from True Soldier last night, though. Ah, but no worries, I’ll manage. I tried a whole lot of stupid hedonistic stuff in my old life, most of it considered highly addictive. Shouldn’t be a big deal. As long as you’re in for the adventure and not the repeated kicks, it’s all good.”

Ana has finished her cup now: “Given that we’re both doing just fine, shall we get revenge and kill a bunch of Terrans?”

Sirvi checks noted Daniel’s dislike of bloody graphics and throws a carbot filter over the game. It is all in bright comic graphics now.

The second round goes better, Ana stays back in the command quarters again, while Daniel guides a roach squad through a tunnel, deep into the enemy base.

“Wait, three more seconds, then strike…” Ana has this all set, multipronging the hell out of her opponent right now. “Banelings are incoming… 2… 1… GOGOGO!”

Daniel and his roach gang unburrow and start tearing apart helpless harvest robots, just as he gets going, bright green bug start falling from the sky — as soon as they hit the ground, they explode into a splash of acid, dissolving the remaining workers. He looks up and spots some more banelings falling from a floating slime balloon, between a bunch of filthy filaments reaching down to the ground.

“And retreat, come up!” Ana is in her element, this attack is just going perfect.

Daniel follows the green dots, to one of the filaments and is catapulted up into the slime balloon.

They won’t recover any time soon. Now Ana just needs a clean defense and the game should be theirs.

Daniel’s roach drops off in their main base: “I love those banelings! Can I play more of those?”

Ana sends him over to the baneling nest and he leaves his roach body to take control of them. His view changes to a commander’s perspective.

He can control a group of banelings with each finger, they can not only drop from the flying balloons, but also burrow themselves and act as mines! So Daniel puts some below ground at the chokepoint between the rocks, and packs a few more into a balloon, heading back to that juicy worker line in the enemy base… The best defense has always been an attack, right?

And here they come, a huge clunk of marines with tank support is moving towards them, and they’re starting to squeeze through the rocks! As they start walking over his burrowed banelings, he lifts the fingers on his left hand and all the marines dissolve in green acid in a funky carbot comic animation.

The balloon has reached the enemy base at the same time, and as Daniel fails to release them, Ana takes over, more banelings falling into the freshly rebuilt worker line. And that was that, they hear a “gg well played” echoing over the landscape, they won!

“Good job! It’s worth focusing on a specific unit initially, and it seems you have a hand for banelings.” Thinking of his delayed drop, she adds: “You can also teach your operating system to make sure they unburrow in the right moment, doing as much damage as possible even if you’re not paying attention. Also, there’s a lot of learning material, I’ll link you up to our sports club teacher if you want.”

“I’m not much of a club person. Especially competitive sports clubs, this whole us versus them culture never made sense to me.” As much as Daniel prefers aggressive youngsters to play out their fights in VR over real world conflicts, the entire concept of competitive fighting just isn’t part of his mindset. His favorite game mode had always been free-for-all, where alliances between different players are shaped and broken on the go.

Ana actually loves the competitive tournaments. Nothing quite like the kick of merging herself with her team and fighting it out against the others. The in-game sports tournaments get a bit repetitive over time, but there’s a lot more to Galaxycraft than the symmetric competitions in the galactic star league: “Sure, your choice. You’ll probably enjoy the galactic politics simulation more then. That’s where the decisions are made that determine these little skirmishes.”

“What about playing as a spy with no clear team alignment?” That would be Helen’s style — interacting with all sides of a conflict, committed to her ethics, not her tribe.

“Sure, that’s possible. But you should bring at least some battle experience to such a role…” Ana could imagine that kind of role for herself at some point, but normally you want to be at grand masters level before going solo. “I’m sure there is some playstyle you’ll find enjoyable, there are almost unlimited options of character development trajectories you can take in the role playing part of the game.”

* * *
